---
id: 321
title: gitlab - create project 
language: bash
created: 2022-05-20T20:56:24Z
modified: 2022-05-20T21:06:55Z
tags: ["gitlab"]
url: https://cloudaffaire.com/how-to-create-a-gitlab-project-using-api/
---

## Description

name
	The name of the new project
	Equals path if not provided.

path
	Repository name for new project
	Generated based on name if not provided (generated as lowercase with dashes)
	Starting with GitLab 14.9, path must not start or end with a special character and must not contain consecutive special characters.

allow_merge_on_skipped_pipeline
	Set whether or not merge requests can be merged with skipped jobs.

analytics_access_level
	One of disabled, private or enabled

approvals_before_merge   note  
	How many approvers should approve merge requests by default
	To configure approval rules, see Merge request approvals API.

auto_cancel_pending_pipelines
	Auto-cancel pending pipelines
	This isn’t a boolean, but enabled/disabled.

auto_devops_deploy_strategy
	Auto Deploy strategy (continuous, manual or timed_incremental).

auto_devops_enabled
	Enable Auto DevOps for this project.

autoclose_referenced_issues
	Set whether auto-closing referenced issues on default branch.

avatar
	Image file for avatar of the project.

build_git_strategy
	The Git strategy
	Defaults to fetch.

build_timeout
	The maximum amount of time, in seconds, that a job can run.

builds_access_level
	One of disabled, private, or enabled.

ci_config_path
	The path to CI configuration file.

container_expiration_policy_attributes
	Update the image cleanup policy for this project
	Accepts: cadence (string), keep_n (integer), older_than (string), name_regex (string), name_regex_delete (string), name_regex_keep (string), enabled (boolean)
	See the Container Registry documentation for more information on cadence, keep_n and older_than values.

container_registry_access_level
	Set visibility of container registry, for this project, to one of disabled, private or enabled.

container_registry_enabled
	(Deprecated) Enable container registry for this project
	Use container_registry_access_level instead.

default_branch
	The default branch name
	Requires initialize_with_readme to be true.

description
	Short project description.

emails_disabled
	Disable email notifications.

external_authorization_classification_label   note  
	The classification label for the project.

forking_access_level
	One of disabled, private, or enabled.

group_with_project_templates_id   note  
	For group-level custom templates, specifies ID of group from which all the custom project templates are sourced
	Leave empty for instance-level templates
	Requires use_custom_template to be true.

import_url
	URL to import repository from
	When this isn’t empty, you must not set initialize_with_readme to true
	Doing so might result in the following error: not a git repository.

initialize_with_readme
	Whether to create a Git repository with just a README.md file
	Default is false
	When this is true, you must not pass import_url or other attributes of this endpoint which specify alternative contents for the repository
	Doing so might result in the following error: not a git repository.

issues_access_level
	One of disabled, private, or enabled.

issues_enabled
	(Deprecated) Enable issues for this project
	Use issues_access_level instead.

jobs_enabled
	(Deprecated) Enable jobs for this project
	Use builds_access_level instead.

lfs_enabled
	Enable LFS.

merge_method
	Set the merge method used.

merge_pipelines_enabled
	Enable or disable merge pipelines.

merge_requests_access_level
	One of disabled, private, or enabled.

merge_requests_enabled
	(Deprecated) Enable merge requests for this project
	Use merge_requests_access_level instead.

merge_trains_enabled
	Enable or disable merge trains.

mirror_trigger_builds   note  
	Pull mirroring triggers builds.

mirror   note  
	Enables pull mirroring in a project.

namespace_id
	Namespace for the new project (defaults to the current user’s namespace).

only_allow_merge_if_all_discussions_are_resolved
	Set whether merge requests can only be merged when all the discussions are resolved.

only_allow_merge_if_pipeline_succeeds
	Set whether merge requests can only be merged with successful pipelines
	This setting is named Pipelines must succeed in the project settings.

operations_access_level
	One of disabled, private, or enabled.

packages_enabled
	Enable or disable packages repository feature.

pages_access_level
	One of disabled, private, enabled, or public.

printing_merge_request_link_enabled
	Show link to create/view merge request when pushing from the command line.

public_builds
	If true, jobs can be viewed by non-project members.

remove_source_branch_after_merge
	Enable Delete source branch option by default for all new merge requests.

repository_access_level
	One of disabled, private, or enabled.

repository_storage
	Which storage shard the repository is on
	(administrator only)

request_access_enabled
	Allow users to request member access.

requirements_access_level
	One of disabled, private or enabled

resolve_outdated_diff_discussions
	Automatically resolve merge request diffs discussions on lines changed with a push.

security_and_compliance_access_level
	(GitLab 14.9 and later) Security and compliance access level
	One of disabled, private, or enabled.

shared_runners_enabled
	Enable shared runners for this project.

snippets_access_level
	One of disabled, private, or enabled.

snippets_enabled
	(Deprecated) Enable snippets for this project
	Use snippets_access_level instead.

squash_option
	One of never, always, default_on, or default_off.

tag_list
	(Deprecated in GitLab 14.0) The list of tags for a project; put array of tags, that should be finally assigned to a project
	Use topics instead.

template_name
	When used without use_custom_template, name of a built-in project template
	When used with use_custom_template, name of a custom project template.

template_project_id   note  
	When used with use_custom_template, project ID of a custom project template
	This is preferable to using template_name since template_name may be ambiguous.

topics
	The list of topics for a project; put array of topics, that should be finally assigned to a project
	(Introduced in GitLab 14.0.)

use_custom_template   note  
	Use either custom instance or group (with group_with_project_templates_id) project template.

visibility
	See project visibility level.

wiki_access_level
	One of disabled, private, or enabled.

wiki_enabled
	(Deprecated) Enable wiki for this project
	Use wiki_access_level instead.

https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/api/projects.html

## Code

```bash
PROJECT_NAME=test
GITLAB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN=...

curl --silent --header "PRIVATE-TOKEN: $GITLAB_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN" \
  -XPOST "https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects?name=$PROJECT_NAME&visibility=private&initialize_with_readme=true"
```

## Output

```
{"id":132638,"description":null,"name":"test","name_with_namespace":"Tran, Annie / test","path":"test","path_with_namespace":"Annie_Tran/test","created_at":"2022-05-20T20:52:21.886Z","default_branch":"main","tag_list":[],"topics":[],"ssh_url_to_repo":"git@gitlab.example.com:Annie_Tran/test.git","http_url_to_repo":"https://gitlab.example.com/Annie_Tran/test.git","web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/Annie_Tran/test","readme_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/Annie_Tran/test/-/blob/main/README.md","avatar_url":null,"forks_count":0,"star_count":0,"last_activity_at":"2022-05-20T20:52:21.886Z","namespace":{"id":25694,"name":"Tran, Annie","path":"Annie_Tran","kind":"user","full_path":"Annie_Tran","parent_id":null,"avatar_url":"/uploads/-/system/user/avatar/15958/avatar.png","web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/Annie_Tran"},"_links":{"self":"https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/132638","issues":"https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/132638/issues","merge_requests":"https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/132638/merge_requests","repo_branches":"https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/132638/repository/branches","labels":"https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/132638/labels","events":"https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/132638/events","members":"https://gitlab.example.com/api/v4/projects/132638/members"},"packages_enabled":true,"empty_repo":false,"archived":false,"visibility":"private","owner":{"id":15958,"username":"Annie_Tran","name":"Tran, Annie","state":"active","avatar_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/uploads/-/system/user/avatar/15958/avatar.png","web_url":"https://gitlab.example.com/Annie_Tran"},"resolve_outdated_diff_discussions":false,"container_expiration_policy":{"cadence":"1d","enabled":false,"keep_n":10,"older_than":"90d","name_regex":".*","name_regex_keep":null,"next_run_at":"2022-05-21T20:52:21.916Z"},"issues_enabled":true,"merge_requests_enabled":true,"wiki_enabled":true,"jobs_enabled":true,"snippets_enabled":true,"container_registry_enabled":true,"service_desk_enabled":false,"service_desk_address":null,"can_create_merge_request_in":true,"issues_access_level":"enabled","repository_access_level":"enabled","merge_requests_access_level":"enabled","forking_access_level":"enabled","wiki_access_level":"enabled","builds_access_level":"enabled","snippets_access_level":"enabled","pages_access_level":"private","operations_access_level":"enabled","analytics_access_level":"enabled","container_registry_access_level":"enabled","emails_disabled":null,"shared_runners_enabled":true,"lfs_enabled":true,"creator_id":15958,"import_status":"none","import_error":null,"open_issues_count":0,"runners_token":"GR1348941HFqJJiSjZmRBkZeixhiT","ci_default_git_depth":20,"ci_forward_deployment_enabled":true,"ci_job_token_scope_enabled":false,"public_jobs":true,"build_git_strategy":"fetch","build_timeout":3600,"auto_cancel_pending_pipelines":"enabled","build_coverage_regex":null,"ci_config_path":"","shared_with_groups":[],"only_allow_merge_if_pipeline_succeeds":false,"allow_merge_on_skipped_pipeline":null,"restrict_user_defined_variables":false,"request_access_enabled":true,"only_allow_merge_if_all_discussions_are_resolved":false,"remove_source_branch_after_merge":true,"printing_merge_request_link_enabled":true,"merge_method":"merge","squash_option":"default_off","suggestion_commit_message":null,"merge_commit_template":null,"squash_commit_template":null,"auto_devops_enabled":false,"auto_devops_deploy_strategy":"continuous","autoclose_referenced_issues":true,"keep_latest_artifact":true,"runner_token_expiration_interval":null,"approvals_before_merge":0,"mirror":false,"external_authorization_classification_label":"","marked_for_deletion_at":null,"marked_for_deletion_on":null,"requirements_enabled":false,"requirements_access_level":"enabled","security_and_compliance_enabled":true,"compliance_frameworks":[],"issues_template":null,"merge_requests_template":null,"merge_pipelines_enabled":false,"merge_trains_enabled":false}
```

<!-- end -->

