---
id: 407
title: ldifde - Active Directory Schema
language: bash
created: 2022-11-15T18:09:03Z
modified: 2022-11-15T18:09:03Z
---

## Description

LDIF Directory Exchange

General Parameters
==================
-i              Turn on Import Mode (The default is Export)
-f filename     Input or Output filename
-s servername   The server to bind to (Default to DC of computer's domain)
-c FromDN ToDN  Replace occurences of FromDN to ToDN
                If either FromDN or ToDN ends with #attributeName, the
                attribute value will be looked up in rootDSE and used to
                replace #attributeName.  See example for "Macro expansion
                in DNs".
-v              Turn on Verbose Mode
-j path         Log File Location
-t port         Port Number (default = 389)
-u              Use Unicode format
-w timeout      Terminate execution if the server takes longer than the
                specified number of seconds to respond to an operation
                (default = no timeout specified)
-h              Enable SASL layer signing and encryption
-?              Help

Export Specific
===============
-d RootDN       The root of the LDAP search (Default to Naming Context)
-r Filter       LDAP search filter (Default to "(objectClass=*)")
-p SearchScope  Search Scope (Base/OneLevel/Subtree)
-l list         List of attributes (comma separated) to look for
                in an LDAP search
-o list         List of attributes (comma separated) to omit from
                input.
-g              Disable Paged Search.
-m              Enable the SAM logic on export.
-n              Do not export binary values
-x              Include deleted objects (tombstones)
-1              Retain only the important replPropertyMetadata

Import
======
-k              The import will go on ignoring 'Constraint Violation'
                and 'Object Already Exists' errors
-y              The import will use lazy commit for better performance
                (enabled by default)
-e              The import will not use lazy commit
-q threads      The import will use the specified number of threads
                (default is 1)
-z              Continue importing irrespective of errors.
-x              Enable tombstone reanimation support (passes deleted
                objects control with ldap modify requests)

Credentials Establishment
=========================
Note that if no credentials is specified, LDIFDE will bind as the currently
logged on user, using SSPI.

-a UserDN [Password | *]            Simple authentication
-b UserName Domain [Password | *]   SSPI bind method


No log files were written.  In order to generate a log file, please
specify the log file path via the -j option.

## Code

```bash
ldifde -f person-ldap.txt -d "CN=Fname Lname,OU=Users,OU=Austin,DC=amer,DC=example,DC=com"
```

## Example

```
Example: Simple import of current domain
    ldifde -i -f INPUT.LDF

Example: Simple export of current domain
    ldifde -f OUTPUT.LDF

Example: Export of specific domain with credentials
    ldifde -m -f OUTPUT.LDF
           -b USERNAME DOMAINNAME *
           -s SERVERNAME
           -d "cn=users,DC=DOMAINNAME,DC=Microsoft,DC=Com"
           -r "(objectClass=user)"

Example: Macro expansion in DNs
    ldifde -f export.ldf -c "#configurationNamingContext" "cn=configuration,dc=x"
    ldifde -i -f import.ldf -c "cn=configuration,dc=x" "#configurationNamingContext"
```

<!-- end -->

